README.md, before:

# polito-se2-23-08
Repository for the 01SQNOV - Software Engineering II course - Thesis Management project

## Sequence for running the project on Docker

Before starting the process described below, download [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/)

- start `Docker Desktop`
- execute `docker compose up` from a terminal (inside the polito-se2-23-08 directory) to create a container with the three images (node app, mongoDB server, node test suite)
- on `Docker Desktop -> Containers` locate the container `thesisproposal`, it should contain three separate images (`db-1`, `backend-1`, `frontend-1` )
- `app-1` is the container that holds the node.js application and makes it accessible on `localhost:3000`: it is possible to access the various routes using `Postman` or other tools
- to test changes in the code directly on Docker, all the images present in the container on `Docker Desktop` must be stopped, deleted and then `docker compose up` again
- the two commands must be launched together in this exact order after code changes, or the images will not be built with the new code
- In order to access the DB (testing purpose) open the Deocker Desktop app, open the db-1 section then switch to Terminal window. Here you can insert the command `psql -U user thesisProposal` to access the DB with username and password. Now you can run and execute your SQL queries.
- ensure that ports 27017 and 3000 are free before executing `docker compose -p ezwallet up` with `docker ps`

Commit message:

"README.md modified, now coherent with the content of the repository"

README.md, after:

# polito-se2-23-08
Repository for the 01SQNOV - Software Engineering II course - Thesis Management project

## Sequence for running the project on Docker

Before starting the process described below, download [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/)

- Start `Docker Desktop` application.
- Open the local repository of the project using a command line interface (ex. Terminal). Be sure to be inside the `polito-se2-23-08` directory.
- execute :

```sh
 docker-compose up --build
```

- on `Docker Desktop -> Containers` locate the container `polito-se2-23-08`, it should contain three separate images (`db-1`, `backend-1`, `frontend-1` )
- `backend-1` is the container that holds the node.js server application and makes it accessible on `localhost:3000`: it is possible to access the various routes using `Postman` or other tools (this operation is advised to expert only).
- to test changes in the code, the containers must be stopped from `Docker Desktop`, the changes must be performed and saved, then the `command docker-compose up --build` should be used again.
- In order to access the DB (testing purpose) open the Deocker Desktop app, open the db-1 section then switch to Terminal window. Here you can insert the command `psql -U user thesisProposal` to access the DB with username and password. Now you can run and execute your SQL queries.
- ensure that ports 5174 and 3000 are free before executing the application.
